We have our Internal developer portal (IDP). Each dept in the org had their own sections in the portal to provide services. However for developers who have their life inside their IDEs, making them adopt this was a big challenge. Even though what we offer was to help them, they would not get out of their env, to go to the portal, get to the service they need and use it. 
On the other hand, the leadership was not ready to invest in the portal for new features because of the low adoption. So, dev dont come since they need it but no so much because they need to get out of their env, leadership doesn't want to continue because of low adoption.

Thi sis the chicken-egg problem. We though, why not have the IDP inside the IDE. We encouraged dept to adopt agentic practices and expose their agents so these services can be used, they can set up or use their own mcp servers, tools and their own tech-stack. But there were a lot of issues (apart from very different skillset). All depts have different usecases, even if we have multiple agents, there was no defined architecture or governance on how the agents can communicate, A2A was there but the guardrails were missing. There were skill issues and also, even if the team had the skillset to build this they had to spent a lot of time doing this on their own. Cantralized authorization was also a big thing. 

We decided to create a master/supervisor agent that will orchectrate the workflow and route the user request to the appropriate agent, manage auth etc. But now we had another problem, agents were doing all communication and all and were managing their own contexts in silos. Yes there were agent cards but what if the router itself does not know and unable to figure out based on the Q. For example we have 2 depts, DLT and INfra. Infra is the one that manages infrastructure but DLT is the one that enables users to spin upresources with just a button click from the portal itself. Now, Since their is a lot of overlap in the dept functions, maybe a little help to the supervisor router to route would be great. Here, we introduced context lake. This will be just alike a cloud storage which will be available for the router to lookup for answers. All the wiki docs and resources about the dept that can help supervisor can be found here. This will be semantic vector search so the semantic meaning can be derived. Now about subagents, they can easily use context lake for storing their contexts instead of in silos. But there was one concern, about exposing data unintentionally, so we provided namespace based access, subagents teams can choose how much data to keep public so it can help supervisor and how much to keep hidden. Q: why would team use context lake at the first place if they want to keep it private. Remember one issue I mentioned "skillset and time saving". They do not need to spend time in implementing vector search or semantic search. They can use this service for their agents without exposing unintended resources. 

Then, now how to make sure developers come back to the IDE? How to make the experience seamless? Lets be honest, when you schedule a meeting then you would recollect teams/google calendars ui, when you sent a mail, you get reminded of that gmail/outlook ui, you can confortable with it. Psycologically when you try to perform that action your brain is searching for something similar right. Here comes mcp apps. You can literally see the things inside your IDE using iframe and you do not need to feel doubt. But, I still have to ask agent to perform some action right, I dint just want to feel good or trust something because it looks familiar. You can use events, you can click on that component and it works just like that. You do not need to do anything else. Cool right. 

Now, for auth we used out of band elicitation that would use mcp connect under the hood. You have a judge inside the supervisor who would keep track that your communication does not go under the loop. It would cross verify the quality of your conversation. 
We have to make sure there is no privilege escalation. We use 3LO: Auth code +PCKE. User approvals to be taken before non-idempotent action. 

Now that the dept had so many agents, mcp server and skills do we feed this at once to the supervisor? Do we integrate them one by one? How about we create our own registry? Supervisor can on the go search through the registry and use context lake and decide where to route. 


This was about supervisor agent. There were many things in the subagents as well. We explored advanced mcp tools to help us not pollute the context: https://www.atcyrus.com/stories/mcp-tool-search-claude-code-context-pollution-guide. Here we used all 3 things : https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/advanced-tool-use


Tool Search Tool, which allows Claude to use search tools to access thousands of tools without consuming its context window
Programmatic Tool Calling, which allows Claude to invoke tools in a code execution environment reducing the impact on the model’s context window
Tool Use Examples, which provides a universal standard for demonstrating how to effectively use a given tool

Here I was using gemini model, when using tool search tool, It was okay, in my usecase it worked just fine but not something over the top. I wanted to cache tokens so i enabled it. cache worked so bad, then disabled tool search tool and cache worked like anything. (I will provide stats later) but for my case it worked wonders. 